Issue#38 why sql comparison (#60)
steno-aarhus/seedcase-project: design/decisions/why-sql/index.md

---
author: Kristiane Beicher
categories:
- backend
- database
- software
- tools
- technology
draft: true
title: Why PostgreSQL
---

# Backend technology

> We will at some point be selecting an open source database as the
> backbone of our project. This will support not only the access and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An open source database is the
backbone of our project. It will support the access,
```

Don't need to talk in the present about the future. You can write more in the affirmative.

security features, but it will also be the place where the user will
ultimately store their data. As the specifications for our system is
still being developed, we have not yet made the decision of which
database to work with.

Below we have first detailed the specifications that we are looking for
in a backend database, and then a discussion of a selection of specific
systems that may meet our requirements.

# Database specifications

This part of the document is expected to change and grow as we narrow
down what we will need the seedcase database to do. There are though
some things that we already know it must be able to handle, and these
are detailed here.

> ## Must have functionality

Reviewer: Or, looking ahead, you mean "we want the database to have these functionality:" and then list them? In that case, you could delete this header and make all subsequent headers level two headers (`##`), since saying specifications in the paragraph above is the same as functionality.

    apart and leave a product unsupported, but the risk here looks
    minimal.
-   MySQL is run by Oracle which is a commercial entity. There is always
    a risk that the company decides to reverse the open source concept
    and go move to a solution with a free light version and full payable
    version. In this case it is very unlikely as the software is very
    well established and the user community quite large.
-   There is currently no option in MySQL to store data in a columnar
    table.

## [PostgreSQL](www.postgresql.org)

First released in 1989 from UC Berkeley, it is maintained by the
PostgreSQL Development Group and is (at the time of writing) on version
15.1. It is an open source platform with the option to deploy either as
a local server solution or cloud based. The implementation language is C
and it runs of a variety of operating systems. The system allows access
through standard technologies (ADO.NET, JDBC, ODBC, a native C library,
and streaming APIs).

**Benefits**

-   At present the fourth most popular database overall and the second
    most popular open source db. There is a thriving community with a

>     lot of engage users delivering support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    lot of engaging users delivering support.
```

Author: I was going for engaged (missing a 'd'), how do I suggest a change to a suggested change?

Reviewer: You can edit it directly, that will cancel my suggestion :stuck_out_tongue:

-   Traditional database system with a recognisable format, should be
    easy to manipulate and work with for the advanced seedcase user.

> -   Support for both xml and json formats, both reading and writing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Support for both XML and JSON formats, both reading and writing.
```
